this is democracy now democracynow.org
the war and peace report
I'm Amy Goodman with Juan Gonzalez as we
turn now to new developments and sexual
assault allegations made against
presidential candidate Joe Biden last
week the intercept reported times up
legal defense fund set up to help
survivors of rape and sexual assault
refused to fund a me-too investigation
into allegations against Biden the
charges were brought by Tara Reed who
worked as a staff assistant for
then-senator Biden in 1993 when she was
in her mid-20s Tara Reed told journalist
Katie Halpern an interview published
Tuesday that Biden repeatedly touched
her without her consent and sexually
assaulted her a warning to listeners and
viewers her account is graphic and then
his hands were on me and underneath my
clothes and yeah and then he went um he
went down my skirt but then up inside it
and he and I traded me for those singers
Tara Reed approached The Times up Legal
Defense Fund in January looking for
assistance but was reportedly told the
fund couldn't help her because Biden's a
candidate for federal office and
pursuing a case could jeopardize the
funds nonprofit status the intercept
reports the public relations firm
representing times up Legal Defense Fund
is skd Knickerbocker whose managing
director Anita Dunn is a top adviser to
Biden's presidential campaign Democracy
Now emailed Biden's press team for
response to the allegations and to join
us on the show but they didn't respond
Joe Biden's deputy campaign manager Kate
Bedingfield Bedingfield said in a
statement quote women have a right to
tell their story and reporters have an
obligation to rigorously vet those
claims we encourage them to do so
because these accusations are false she
said well in this exclusive democracy
now TV radio broadcasts were joined now
by Tara Reid herself the former staffer
for Joe Biden who came forward with the
allegations that Biden sexually
assaulted her in 1993
tarah welcome to Democracy Now it is
very difficult to go back over something
like this but if you wouldn't mind
telling us about how you came to decide
at this point that it was important for
you to tell your story you had come
forward last year when others talked
about Senator Joe Biden the former vice
president the presidential candidate
being sexually inappropriate with them
but you didn't go as far as to tell this
story that happened in 1993
so why don't you tell us what happened I
actually tried to tell the story to some
extent in 1993 in the sense that I
wanted to talk about it but I was too
afraid
my mother had encouraged me to file a
police report and I did not and I should
have so I filed a sexual harassment
claim orgeous I filled out a paper and
then did not hear back can you give us
the circumstances how you ended up what
was the day how you ended up alone with
Joe Biden explain what happened that day
um I was approached by my supervisor she
handed me a gym bag and said hurry Joe
once you wants this so get it to him
he's meet you down towards the Capitol
and I went down the stairs and I don't
remember exactly where I was because
there's connections between the Russell
building and all of that and the
corridors but we were in a semi-private
location it wasn't a room
it wasn't the rest you know the Russell
office building it was I mean in the
Roth's his office it was down in
quarters and I handed him the gym bag
and then he it was one as I described
fluid moment he was talking to me and he
said some things that I don't recall and
I was up against the wall and he I
remember the coldness of the wall and I
remember his hands underneath my bus and
underneath my skirt
and his fingers penetrating me as he was
kissed trying to kiss me and I was
pulling away and he pulled back and he's
dead
come on man I heard you liked me but he
was angry it was like a tight voice and
he tended to smile when he was angry and
he isn't like the Uncle Joe like
everybody talks about now he was younger
he was my dad's age at that time and
very strong and he looked insulted and
angry and I remember feeling like I had
done something wrong when he said that
statement and then I was standing there
when he said he was still near me he
said pointed his finger and said you're
nothing to me
you're nothing and he walked away and I
don't remember exactly where I went
after I think I went to the restroom to
clean up but I don't remember precisely
the next memory I have a sitting in the
cold stairs and the Russell building
back stairs where the big windows are
and I remember just my whole body
shaking and I remember knowing that
knowing that I had made him angry and
that my career was probably over and I
didn't comply and I didn't comply when I
was asked to serve drinks at a cocktail
party for donors because apparently Joe
Biden said according to a legislative
staffer that I had pretty late because
any thought I was pretty and I should
serve the drinks and my supervisor had
encouraged me to do so and I did not so
sitting on those stairs the reality hit
me the next thing I remember was that
night and talking to my mom and she was
like you need to file a police report
it's a sexual assault and I didn't think
of it as sexual assault and I didn't
really understand and I was trying to
just get over the shock of it because I
looked up to him he was supposed to be a
champion of women and I was so thrilled
to be at that office and so honored I
did it
shattered my life and changed the
trajectory of my whole career in life
and I lost my job after I complained and
I was fired exactly did you complain
Tara you filed a complaint of sexual
harassment against senator Biden at the
time now let's be clear this is 1993 two
years after he led the Senate Judiciary
Committee around the Anita Hill charges
against Clarence Thomas so this is soon
after that you filed a complaint did you
talk about this happening
no I didn't talk about the sexual
assault what I did was I went through
office protocol which would be to go to
your supervisor and if you're not happy
you go to the next supervisor and then
the next one would be the chief of staff
and I did go up the chain verbally and
there were a couple of meetings more
than more than a couple actually and
there were people taking notes I mean I
know they took notes and some were more
informal in the hallway with Mary Ann
and I was basically after I had not
served the drinks that whole you know
episode I was immediately told like
within a few days by Mary Ann's
assistant that I dressed too
provocatively famous juice that I needed
to you know be less noticeable and the
Mary Ann got me in the hallway because I
was annoyed by that and she said you
know you want to just keep your head
down and do as you're told if you want
to last here and I went to them and told
them I was uncomfortable so I've coached
it in those terms we didn't use the term
sexual harassment a lot back then and I
remember saying I was uncomfortable and
why but nothing happened and in fact I
was put in a windowless office and I was
had my duties taken away from me I was
given a desk got it I was told to call
one of my my upper level supervisors
even if I went to the restroom I was not
to call or talk to other staffers or go
to legislative hearings
I was told that I was given a month to
find another job and I sent out my
resumes and before I did that because of
this retaliation I told my mother who
gave me the term retaliation and
explained to me what was happening and
said to march in there and file a sexual
harassment claim and I said and she used
the word and I said well you don't just
march into their office like that's not
how this is done so I had gone through
that protocol then when that didn't work
I went to the outside which was like a
they had a temporary office set up so it
was a Senate personnel or something like
that
and I was given a clipboard I filled out
a form and talked about just the
incident of the sexual harassment
feeling uncomfortable and I was told at
the window that somebody would call back
you know call me back in and they never
did
I ended up looking for work couldn't
find it I volunteered for the Robert of
Kennedy Memorial I was fortunate enough
to work in the VIP tent and with the
family and it was it was was helping me
emotionally because I was trying to
recover from the trauma of what had
happened that day and I didn't share it
with many people at all at that time I
it's just not something that was easy to
talk about it's not easy to talk about
now
and when I came out in April I started
again
I had the intent to tell the whole
history with Biden but one of the first
questions out of the reporters mouth was
yeah but it wasn't sexual right when he
was talking about sexual harassment and
it shut me down and that's not his fault
that's my responsibility I know to be
brave and to be courageous and say the
words but I it just put me off from
being able to talk and then when the
story was hitting there was so much
blowback and smearing on social media
that I just didn't feel comfortable so I
was trying to find a way to tell my
story to a legitimate news agency I
didn't
it's old or horse you know
sensationalized or anything nonsense
like that
I want it to have the deeper
conversation of how hard it is for
survivors of sexual assault and sexual
harassment in the workplace to go up
against powerful men because I have not
received any payment for this I have not
received any compensation because the
facts are you know women are not paid to
talk they're paid to stay silent and so
I wanted a women's organization around
me and that's why I went to tens up and
Tyra read could you talk about your
experience then with times up when you
went to them and you were hoping that
they might be able to to to assist you
in in this yes they were very gracious I
filled out a form first of all on it on
you know you do it on the online and
then I was called about January 24th ish
right around there an email back and and
then we had a phone interview there's
about 20 emails between us and there
were several meetings on the phone and
what they did was they prepared a
paragraph describing my case and they
were gonna give me attorney referrals
and if you're economically and you know
challenged or you need help with funds
they will help you with a public
relations platform for one month I'm so
access to a public relations firm to
tell your story with their platform and
also to have an attorney which is what I
was seeking because of the social media
smears I wanted like cease and desist
for some of the things that were being
said I wanted protection of some sort
and not to be alone and describe then
what happened I mean this report in the
intercept of you waiting to hear from
times up and then what you learned
afterwards about its links to the Biden
campaign through the PR firm
it was absolutely stunning and the 20
plus emails and the multiple
conversations that we had not one time
not once did they say that they were
connected to Anita Dunn who worked for
Harvey Weinstein and advised him and
helped him keep silence some of the
women that came forward not one time did
they talk about the payments that were
made to the Joe Biden campaign now bear
in mind and their defense they said that
that second removed but part of their
services was to provide a platform a
social you know a a public relations
platform I don't understand as a
survivor and I'm not an investigative
reporter I'm not an investigator I'm
just speaking as a survivor it violated
my trust when I read Ryan Grimm's
article I'd I found out with everyone
else and I'm still processing that I
shared my story with them again and
again with the attorneys that they sent
to me and each time I was rejected by
each attorney one attorney said we've
met as a firm and we have decided there
is no legal strategy to safely tell your
story because it's Joe Biden and what I
want to say is that's wrong that's
unconscionable anyone who has a claim or
an assertion of something that's
happened of misconduct should be able to
speak freely without reprisal and as you
can see in the social media I am being
ripped apart I've had my family and my
friends contacted I've had my bankruptcy
posted I have had the fact that I had a
name change which was sealed at a sealed
Social Security changed for safety
because I'm a domestic violence survivor
and I've been dragged through it but I
don't care I don't care about that they
can try to strip away everything about
me but they won't take my dignity and
they won't get my silence because all
that does is make me more determined to
tell
story and it doesn't change the fact of
what happened in 1993 and entirely
throughout all this time when you were
when you were engaged in discussions
with the times up folks they never
mentioned their relationship with Anita
Dunn or or and how did they finally
notify you that they could not be
involved they started an email but then
I called Ellie asking her what was going
on it was taking some time and I kept
getting rejected by attorneys and she
said I was gonna just email you but I
have to tell you there are a 501 C 3
status would be at risk we can keep
referring attorneys to you but we cannot
provide you funding so then I wanted to
escalate it to the director and so we
had a meeting with the director and the
program manager and I pushed back a
little and I said I can't help who did
this where do I go how do I get help how
do I get a woman's organization to help
me and her response was keeping
communications with us our attorneys
that have advised us are 501 C 3 could
be at risk because it's the presidential
election and we can't appear bias so I
accepted that response at that time we
have it on Symons terrible anyway what I
would say is there's been no access to
justice for me and theirs in the fall
there's no democracy for me Tara Reid I
want to thank you so much for being with
us former staff assistant to
then-senator Joe Biden she alleges that
Joe Biden sexually assaulted her in 1993
that does it for our broadcast Democracy
Now produced by amazing group of people
Mike Burke Dina Guster nermeen Shaikh
Carla wells time in war enough we'll be
ready I'm Amy Goodman with Juan Gonzalez